# Bitmill Manual

## Purpose of This Manual

This manual aims to be a comprehensive and assertive guide to web development.
Since web development is exploding, there is to the point that one risks
parallizing decision fatigue as soon as one begins designing web application
even of modest size.  To get past this first hurdle it is important to so
choose a technology stack and start building instead of spending countless
hours deciding what the optimal solution is.

Most mainstream toolchains are mature and performant enough for most
applications.  Do make informed decisions of what toolset is the most suitable
for your specific needs, you need to get your hands dirty and begin to
understand how some of the tools work and relate.

This is where this manual comes in. It is very opinionated in the decisions it
makes; but this means you don't have to make any. Once you finish the guide,
you will have covered more than enough ground to build solid, state of the art
apps using our toolchain; or exchange any or all parts of the toolchain to suit
your needs.

## Never Ending Process

One of the most important concepts of this guide is the fact it will never be
complete.  As the tools we use, how we use them... and even what we do, is
constantly changing, so will this guide. Just like we try to apply Kaizen to
the code we write, we will apply the same philosophy to this guide.

## Enable Users to Contribute

To facilitate this constant evolution of the guide, all of its users need to be
able to contibute. This obviously includes You as well. If you find any part
confusing, needlessly verbose or in need of improvement, please do not hesitate
to contribute.

The portal has many channels for submitting ideas or concepts. If you do not
want to edit this guide directly, you can always submit your thoughts to a feed
there. If it is worthy, it will quickly find its way into this guide.

## DOMAINS

+ <https://domainr.com/> (has API as well, see Mashape below)

## API!!!!

+ <
+ <https://www.mashape.com/>
